Run arduino_debug.exe (#99)
arduino/help-center-content: content/Software and Downloads/IDE Settings/Run-arduino-debug-exe-Windows.md

---
title: "Run arduino_debug.exe (Windows)"
---

> The Java-based version of Arduino IDE (1.x) for Windows includes a debug tool for troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arduino IDE 1.x for Windows includes an alternative executable that provides log output to use for troubleshooting problems with the IDE.
```

- The user does not care whatsoever which language the Arduino IDE happens to be written in. That information is completely irrelevant to the content of the tutorial
- The term "debug tool" can be confusing because it might be interpreted as meaning a tool for debugging the sketch code (such as the debugger tool Arduino IDE 2.x has)
- Make it clear that this is for troubleshooting problems with the IDE.

---

## Running `arduino_debug.exe`

1. Open File Explorer and navigate to the Arduino IDE application folder, located in `C:\Program Files (x86)\Arduino` by default.

> 2. Find the `arduino_debug.exe` file and double-click it to launch it.

Reviewer: By far, the most common use for the output provided by `arduino_debug.exe` is troubleshooting the IDE failing to start. If the user starts the executable by double-clicking, they will see the terminal window open for a fraction of a second and then close before they were able to look at the valuable output.

In this case, the user must run `arduino_debug.exe` from a command line terminal (PowerShell or cmd).

The IDE generally does a good job of providing information about the problem via the application when it is able to start. The output you would see from `arduino_debug.exe` while it is running is also printed to the output panel at the bottom of the Arduino IDE window.

For this reason, I think you should drop this idea of telling people to open it via a double-click and the tutorial should instruct the user in how to run it from the command line terminal.

Author: Great feedback, I will make that change.

Author: e016fab12a76f58fa26001f57ca1e47bbdbbc68f

---
title: "Run arduino_debug.exe (Windows)"
---

Arduino IDE 1.x for Windows includes an alternative executable that provides log output to use for troubleshooting problems with the IDE.

---

## Running `arduino_debug.exe`

1. Start File Explorer (AKA Windows Explorer).

2. [Open the Arduino IDE installation folder](https://support.arduino.cc/hc/en-us/articles/4412943340178-Open-the-Arduino-IDE-installation-folder) (in `C:\Program Files (x86)\Arduino` by default).

3. Inside the installation folder, hold the <kbd>Shift</kbd> key while right-clicking an **empty** area in the window (not on a file.

   * If _"Open PowerShell window here"_ is available, click it to open **PowerShell**.
   * If _“Open command window here"_ is available, click it to open **cmd.exe**.

   ![Opening PowerShell with Shift + right-click.](img/arduino_debug-right-click-menu.png)

4. The command shell window will open.

>    * If you're using cmd.exe, enter `arduino_debug.exe` and click <kbd>Enter</kbd>.
> 
>      ![Running arduino_debug.exe in cmd.exe](img/arduino_debug-cmd-run.png)
> 
>    * If you're using PowerShell, enter `./arduino_debug.exe` and click <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * If you're using cmd.exe, enter `arduino_debug.exe` and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

     ![Running arduino_debug.exe in cmd.exe](img/arduino_debug-cmd-run.png)

   * If you're using PowerShell, enter `./arduino_debug.exe` and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.
```

The term "click" is typically used only with mouse operation.
